Reading guide

Specific articles of clothing are coloured in pink, fashion-specific terminology
are coloured in blue. There’s an index at the end so people who have not heard 
this terminology before can look at a definition for it, plus hopefully a link 
showing an example. Key concepts are italicized, there’s no convenient way to 
look these up obviously but it’s there to reward readers to have something focus
on more.


Preword

I made a thread recently on r/mtf asking if people on this sub and other similar
spaces would be of service, and well the reception was positive so here we go. I
want to start by clearly and explicitly stating, none of the info here is needed
so to say. Clothes are ultimately ways to protect ourselves from the 
environment, kept clean, and everything else is a bonus. Passing is also a 
concept which based on feedback I should probably address here. Firstly, 
depending on where one lives there are trans women who need to be able to pass 
for their own safety if they want to present femme publicly, this should be 
taken seriously. There are also people who on their own want to pass, this again
should be taken seriously. And of course there are also people who on their own
don’t care about passing, again to be taken seriously. The point is, while some
aspects of this guide will go into sort of techniques which help to present/pass
as female, I sincerely want to state it is not a need. And I'm gonna be real,
the most important aspect for passing by a country mile is voice, so this guide
does not help with the number 1 category. But also, there's a certain point of
diminishing returns if you have a perfectly passing voice with anti-drip.

The point of this guide is to give the absolute basics of fashion, while taking
into consideration the circumstances of trans women. This is not the case for 
everyone (personally I’m not like the following) but many trans women start out
their transition and when they first publicly present femme being pretty 
clueless about fashion let alone women’s fashion. If we start transitioning in
teenage years or adulthood (the overwhelming majority of trans femmes), we don’t
have the opportunity and time to experiment with personal fashion and just be a
goofy looking kid in the meantime, and often nor the budget, especially earlier
on transition. The end result is, while obviously not all cis women care for 
fashion and self-expression through clothing (I’d wager most don’t but 
whatever), pretty much all have had that chance to figure out what works well 
enough for their body appearance and lives to a competent enough level, since 
dressing competently is a higher social priority/pressure for women. But that is
quite far from being the case with trans women, especially with those of use who
are earlier into the whole thing (which is most of this sub’s active user base).
Again if you don’t care about those pressures, that’s fine, that's awesome 
actually, but the point of this guide is to help out those who do (or those who
are simply interested in fashion) and don’t know where to start.

For simplicity’s sake, let’s think of fashion in our contexts in 5 levels. 
Level 1
  Fashion fundamentals
    Baby steps ok? Colour, seasonality, formality, versatility etc
Level 2
  Distinctions of women's fashion
    Hmm why woman label shirt different than man label shirt
Levl 3
  Disctions of different clothing cuts and fabrics
    In particular how they work with different body types
Level 4
  Niche categories
    Think accesories, fashion subcultures, brands, trends
Level 5
  Personal fashion actualization
    This will be less about fashion and more like philosophical/vague

That dressing to a competent enough level I mentioned earlier, you can think of
it as just comprising of the first 3 levels. If you don’t care about personal 
fashion, keeping up with trends, investing more than is needed for a basic 
wardrobe etc, there is really no need to enter levels 4 and 5. If you just care
about passing, again I think only the first 3 levels are needed, but technically
we can also go higher if the goal is something like “passing/presenting as a 
fashionable woman”, hope that makes sense. Anyone can start working on level 5 
as soon as they want, but I leave it last because A: it’s the most optional of
these five broad strokes and B: it’s harder to execute on personal fashion 
identity even if you’ve found it without a decent understanding of the first 
four. You can pretty much apply this to any of the levels 2-5, but I wanted to
specify 5 because I do not want anyone thinking there is a “need” to follow any
of these rules in any order, you can start doing your own thing at any point. 
But yknow, be aware that to you average person youmay not be drippin as hard. 
Anyways this initial post is just my own interpretation of the level 1 I 
mentioned. And in case you’re wondering where these 5 levels come from, I made 
it the f*ck up, but these are pretty standard concepts so I’m sure there’s been
some convergent evolution that get to very similar frameworks. 

Lastly before getting into the actual content for level 1, who even am I? Well,
I’m not a worker in the fashion/stylist industry or anything of the sort (but I
do know others in the space). I'm also not even a trans woman... well I am what
is sometimes called mtf but at this point I don't think I'm just a binary trans
woman, this is worth bringing up because while I may at time bring up specific
traits or clothing silhouettes and the like to follow, know that it is quite
optional as I don't even follow them much of the time (but again, if passing is
a safety/more urgent priority for you then you may want to take it more 
seriously. Ultimately I’m just one person with one set of circumstances and 
body, obviously if you do not have the same circumstances and body type for 
whatever example just ignore the info. But I know enough about fashion 
fundamentals to feel competent making this level 1 guide, from being pretty 
heavy into fashion in my pre-egg crack years, having at least a good 2 years
post-egg crack (if there are more elderly/knowledgeable transfems please feel
free to help out, I'm just putting a resource together), and being fortunate 
enough to have been around the world interacted with people from all sorts of
walks of life to have a more broad understanding of what fashion means in a more
universal sense (but also the variety of local niches and how those can be a 
factor). Despite that I’m not in a financially comfortable situation (I'm early
20s entry position in my career field so uh money go sky), combined with how 
expensive mtf transitioning even outside of clothing is I know from personal 
experience the struggles with budgetary concerns and how that affects the 
process of “revamping the wardrobe”. Additionally, I have some hefty pretty 
privilege in regards to some appearances and stuff like silhouette proportions
etc so I do not feel fully competent/comfortable in say making a guide for level
3. There are still some ways in which testosterone has indeed scarred my body in
ways I am not happy in, but it could have been worse anyways, and I am only one
body type either way. That category will effectively be a work in progress until
there are significant contributions from trans feminine people with different
lived experiences proportions etc. Anyways, onwards to level 1!
