## Reading guide

Structurally, this guide is a set of plain English text-based markdown documents
sorted out in a set of folders/directories meant to be logical. For now there is
only this text, but later updates of this guide will hopefully have both some
images or video links of the concepts and items I am discussing, and once that
is done get some pictures of outfits of my own relevant to a given part of the
guide from me and maybe if later others are comfortable others as well for some
body and wardrobe diversity, but that is quite far away from the current version
present. The horizontal width of the amount of characters/words in these
documents are done to, among other reasons, make reading by scrolling down easy
and to be able to comfortably have the documents occupy half a 1080p computer
screen or whatever other half of a modern horizontal display or all of a modern
vertical display you have on your device(s). I may end up sharing some videos
in reference to parts of the guide later, but the issue is that those are not as
shareable ie need internet access, the video creators or ie youtube could remove
the videos at any point etc. So I prioritize actual files for this repository. 
As such to simplify things, every image will include a section of text at the 
bottom to cite/give credit to wherever the source image is from if it is not my
own. Hope this helps!

## Preword

From asking trans fem friends and online spaces with/for trans fem communities,
the idea of such a guide has been positively received/requested so here wo go. I
want to start by clearly and explicitly stating, none of the info here is needed
so to say. Clothes are ultimately ways to protect ourselves from the 
environment, kept clean, and everything else is a bonus. Passing is also a 
concept which based on feedback I should probably address here. Firstly, 
depending on where one lives there are trans women who need to be able to pass 
for their own safety if they want to present femme publicly, this should be 
taken seriously. There are also people who on their own want to pass, this again
should be taken seriously. And of course there are also people who on their own
don’t care about passing, again to be taken seriously. The point is, while some
aspects of this guide will go into sort of techniques which help to present/pass
as female, I sincerely want to state it is not a need. And I'm gonna be real,
the most important aspect for passing by a country mile is voice, so this guide
does not help with the number 1 category. But also, there's a certain point of
diminishing returns if you have a perfectly passing voice with anti-drip.

The point of this guide is to give the absolute basics of fashion, while taking
into consideration the circumstances of trans women. This is not the case for 
everyone (personally I’m not like the following) but many trans women start out
their transition and when they first publicly present femme being pretty 
clueless about fashion let alone women’s fashion. If we start transitioning in
teenage years or adulthood (the overwhelming majority of trans femmes), we don’t
have the opportunity and time to experiment with personal fashion and just be a
goofy looking kid in the meantime, and often nor the budget, especially earlier
on transition. The end result is, while obviously not all cis women care for 
fashion and self-expression through clothing (I’d wager most don’t but 
whatever), pretty much all have had that chance to figure out what works well 
enough for their body appearance and lives to a competent enough level, since 
dressing competently is a higher social priority/pressure for women. But that is
quite far from being the case with trans women, especially with those of use who
are earlier into the whole thing (which is most of this sub’s active user base).
Again if you don’t care about those pressures, that’s fine, that's awesome 
actually, but the point of this guide is to help out those who do (or those who
are simply interested in fashion) and don’t know where to start.

For simplicity’s sake, let’s think of fashion in our contexts in 5 levels. 
Level 1
  Fashion fundamentals
    Baby steps ok? Colour, seasonality, formality, versatility, basic items etc
Level 2
  Distinctions of women's fashion
    Hmm why woman label shirt different than man label shirt
Level 3
  Distinctions of different clothing cuts and fabrics
    In particular how they work with different body types
Level 4
  Niche categories
    Think accesories, fashion subcultures, brands, trends
Level 5
  Personal fashion actualization
    This will be less about fashion and more like philosophical/vague

That dressing to a competent enough level I mentioned earlier, you can think of
it as just comprising of the first 3 levels. If you don’t care about personal 
fashion, keeping up with trends, investing more than is needed for a basic 
wardrobe etc, there is really no need to enter levels 4 and 5. If you just care
about passing, again I think only the first 3 levels are needed, but technically
we can also go higher if the goal is something like “passing/presenting as a 
fashionable woman”, hope that makes sense. Anyone can start working on level 5 
as soon as they want, but I leave it last because A: it’s the most optional of
these five broad strokes and B: it’s harder to execute on personal fashion 
identity even if you’ve found it without a decent understanding of the first 
four. You can pretty much apply this to any of the levels 2-5, but I wanted to
specify 5 because I do not want anyone thinking there is a “need” to follow any
of these rules in any order, you can start doing your own thing at any point. 
But yknow, be aware that to you average person youmay not be drippin as hard. 
Anyways this initial post is just my own interpretation of the level 1 I 
mentioned. And in case you’re wondering where these 5 levels come from, I made 
it the f*ck up, but these are pretty standard concepts so I’m sure there’s been
some convergent evolution that get to very similar frameworks. 

Lastly before getting into the actual content for level 1, who even am I? Well,
I’m not a worker in the fashion/stylist industry or anything of the sort (but I
do know others in the space). I'm also not even a trans woman... well I am what
is sometimes called mtf but at this point I don't think I'm just a binary trans
woman, this is worth bringing up because while I may at time bring up specific
traits or clothing silhouettes and the like to follow, know that it is quite
optional as I don't even follow them much of the time (but again, if passing is
a safety/more urgent priority for you then you may want to take it more 
seriously). Ultimately I’m just one person with one set of circumstances and 
body, obviously if you do not have the same circumstances and body type for 
whatever example just ignore the info. But I know enough about fashion 
fundamentals to feel competent making this level 1 guide, from being pretty 
heavy into fashion in my pre-egg crack years, having at least a good 2 years
post-egg crack (if there are more elderly/knowledgeable transfems please feel
free to help out, I'm just putting a resource together), and being fortunate 
enough to have been around the world interacted with people from all sorts of
walks of life to have a more broad understanding of what fashion means in a more
universal sense (but also the variety of local niches and how those can be a 
factor). Despite that I’m not in a financially comfortable situation (I'm early
20s entry position in my career field so uh money go sky), combined with how 
expensive mtf transitioning even outside of clothing is I know from personal 
experience the struggles with budgetary concerns and how that affects the 
process of “revamping the wardrobe”. Additionally, I have some hefty pretty 
privilege in regards to some appearances and stuff like silhouette proportions
etc so I do not feel fully competent/comfortable in say making a guide for level
3. There are still some ways in which testosterone has indeed scarred my body in
ways I am not happy in, but it could have been more anyways, and I am only one
body type either way. That category will effectively be a work in progress until
there are significant contributions from trans feminine people with different
lived experiences proportions etc. I still have some contents included there as
I have tried to help/work with transfem friends of mine to find types of 
clothing that suit them better, but either way I would not consider that section
"solid advice" until I hear from or get contributions from trans girlies with
all sorts of body types, as ultimately I only live life with my silhouette.

## Warning: common things to avoid

This is a pretty harsh list, but I would recommend taking these warnings more
seriously for those who want to take being more fashionable seriously, not even
necessarily just passing.

Don't be a stereotype girlies. In particular, a stereotype that coincides with a
lot of archetypical femboy online identity attire and looks out of place in
practice. Don't do the thigh highs, just do tights if the weather calls for it,
don't overuse skirts especially if you don't already have a solid foundation of
fashion fundamentals and have experienced it through lived experiences for some
time. Be very careful about leggings. 

Don't just directly try and copy paste what you see cisgender women in your life
wearing, our bodies most likely are quite different in some ways that may end up
creating very uncanny outfits and appearances. The worst offender I have seen of
this tend to be form-fitting business casual attire, jeans, and practically
anything with spaghetti straps whether it be bags or bras or tops. It can work
for some but I would advice a strong degree of caution and comprehension before
trying. When I mention stuff like looking towards what you cool looking female
presenting people in your day to day wearing, it's more as a point of general
insipiration and ideas, not as a direct reference. There are warnings I have for
specific articles of clothing as well, but I'll wait until the section where
said items are discussed. Anyways, onwards to level 1!
