# Introductory ramblings

Uhhh just do what you want like whatever man it's your life... I am not just
saying this to sound preachy or whatever, I really think you can throw out as
much of the info of this guide as you would like. However, I still think it is
good/helpful to read through and digest and conceptualize the foundations and
fundamentals of fashion just like any artform. I've talked about passing and the
like, ultimately it's up to you to give a shit about that. I've experienced both
with myself and others, that even after time learning about fashion more, and
moreso getting further along in transition and having a more feminine phenotype,
it ends up being up to the individual how feminine they want to present with
clothing. There is not much in the way of specific guides at this point, it is
more some thoughts to munch on.

## Hair

It might be strange that it took me this long to bring up hair, or that I am
discussing this topic at all, but this category is more introspective on what
someone does with their own presentation. Ultimately this guide is about how to
go about presenting one's outward appearance with clothing in a way that looks
competent and female-read, not necessarily feminine but read as female. And like
it or not, hair is one of the most significant ways our outer appearance is
perceived. In current contemporary society around much of the world, longer and
well-maintained hair is perceived as both female and feminine. If you want
longer hair but do not quite have that yet as you are growing it, grow it out
and learn how to take care of longer hair as this occurs. If you already have
longer hair, firstly, is it being well-maintained? For this instance, I would go
try and find videos from cis women on how to take care of hair of whatever given
texture you have. For example, I have let's say intermediately curly hair, where
it is read and perceived as curly if I allow it to be that way but it is not to
the point of being consistently coiled or kinky hair bundles, and that has its
own specific procedures different from straight hair, wavy hair, coiled hair.
But how one styles or keeps their hair is a very personal thing, as it is the
most consistent part of your appearance or arguably "outfits" besides stuff like
physique which this guide will not get into (pssst, do squats, bulgarian split
squats, and hip abductions, and eat a lotta food if you're a skinny girlie). If
you want to be read as a very conventionally feminine girlie, there are basic
bitch hairstyles to follow and well simply put they work. If you want to be read
as a more alternative girlie but still definitely girlie, there is stuff for
that too. Dyed hair of all sorts is present etc. I would say for most readers,
if you do not really want to think much about your hair, just get it to a bit
below shoulder length, make sure to take good care of it with getting the ends
trimmed a couple times a year, and do a type that's not fighting against stuff
testosterone did to do us dirty (see below). Anything past that is up to your
self-actualization of how you want to perceived in the world beyond as just
feminine or woman or whatever.

It may also be time for some tough questions, because testosterone sucks. How
far back is your hairline? How much hair your hair been thinned? If it is quite
a bit, I would try and put the time in to find a really consistent high quality
wig/weave that looks fairly natural on your head/complexion. In a very rare
instance, black trans fems have a privilege here as having weaves is socially
acceptable/common for all sorts of age demographics and circumstances, so that's
quite chill, as is maybe even getting colours and textures which are not "fairly
natural on your head/complexion". Something to keep in mind here is that over
time, testosterone suppression/removal from HRT plus stuff like minoxidil and/or
good diet and/or supplements can make hair and hairline regrowth very possible,
but that will take some time if it is to occur. Testosterone also seperately
sucks for a lot of trans fems in that it causes additional skull growth and
change in shape around the forehead. This is where the bangs being el classico
for trans women comes from. It is very common for a reason, but I should say
that it is not necessarily "correct" or "necessary" for everyone to have hair
and an upper part of one's head be perceived as female/feminine. Some people can
part their hair down the middle and be fine, some people can do a side part and
be fine (both of there with perhaps varying levels of covering of the forehead),
and some few people can do nothing at all and be good to go. Personally I
thought that bangs were the way to go for me, but actually by far the most
flattering and still fem-read solution for me was a side part that partially
covers the left side of my forehead (cuz my forehead and eyebrows and stuff are
a little strange in a way in which that ends up working out really well). 

Anyways, hair length. The basic reality is that longer hair, like a lot of it
down to below jaw height in a bob cut or lower like down to shoulders below
shoulders etc, will be read as female. Provided this is appropriately taken care
of, as a common pitfall I see from a lot of trans fems and me for some point in
the past as well is having long hair but not with the same level of care and
sheen as cis girls, leading it to just look like some dude with unkept long 
locks. Anything else and you're playing hard mode. I have chosen to play hard
mode so I will discuss this for a bit. Currently my hair is definitely longer
than the average guy's, but it is not a stereotypical women's long hair cut
either, it's some gay ass mullet with the longer top part down to around lip
height and the back down to around the bottom of my neck (also not dyed, this is
worth noting as dying your hair in some colour like blue or purple or green will
get read as some queer probably lesbian look if looking at the hair on its own).
I have absolutely gotten gendered as male more compared to when I had the longer
hair, especially so if I am wearing more layers and less form-fitting layers.
Notably, this is despite at this point having a fairly feminine or at least 
androgynous but soft featured face and definitely a feminine physique/silhouette
these days. People just see short or even not long hair and not overtly feminine
silhouette and will think dude, that's how it is. So I think straight up, the
most important trait for passing in colder weather when you are layered up more
is your hair. Dressing competently and voice and stuff matters a ton for sure
especially voice, but the hair is really that big of a deal. Basically if you
have shorter hair you're either read as a dude or a dyke very often. Personally
I'm fine with that trade-off for needing muuuuch less time to manage my hair,
am quite happy with the current style, and am nonbinary in some ways regardless
so it's not like being read as male causes me psychic damage, plus I live in a
place where being visibly very androgynous trans etc is safe. These are all
things to keep in mind, I think for most trans fems and trans women certainly,
the tradeoff of having to put in more time to take care of longer hair is very
very very worth it.

Lastly I will talk about eyebrows for a bit. For most people, yes you will have
to do at least a bit of plucking your eyebrows from what they naturally are at.
This may be more than cis women on average, but guess what cis women pluck their
eyebrows too to get the shaping they desire. With that said, PLEASE do not
overdo this. Really thin eyebrows are a thing sure, and we see them more often
with women sure, but I would argue that actually for the majority of people and
the majority of trans fems it will look unflattering and perhaps over-emphasize
any potential more masculine-reading parts of ones brow bone and eye hood covers
and the like. Try and figure out what sort of eyebrow arc will work well for
your face, probably tweeze em down in thickness but please do not overdo it, and
look up guides on this (preferably from trans women with eyebrows that are not
too thin, but videos from cis women are also fine the issue is they might just
skip over things which are basic pieces of knowledge to cis girlies but not the
average reader of this guide). You can do eyebrow slits piercings etc if you
want, usually this will result in being read as more punky and queer, up to you.

# Fashion subcultures

## Alt girlies

I start with this group not because it starts with A, but because from my
experience a lot of trans girls want to dress like this one way or another. But
before I continue, ask yourself why you want to dress like this. Is there
anything about the style which speaks to you? Do you think it just looks cool or
hot and you want to follow suit? What do you think of the stereotypes associated
with it? Generally I would advise against really sticking to just this fashion
subculture for a really long time as it can be a bit limitation, but I can see
its upside as guides or frames of reference too. These tradeoffsand questions
are very much so for you to figure out. This should be asked for any fashion 
niche if you're really trying to go into, but I will only mention it once here.
Full disclosure, generally I lean pretty heavily into learning the fundamentals
first and the figuring out what works for you and how to end up with a unique
wardrobe, but I understand that is not for everyone, and either way talking
about some subcultures can be helpful.

So what even is alternative style? Uhhh, it's a weird question to ask the same
way it is for alternative music. Alternative rock is kinda easy, it's weird rock
that might turn some people off by being a bit or a lot technical but get others
hooked, alternative music idek. Apparently boygenius is alternative music? Ok
anyways, these days in western english speaking cultures alternative womens
fashion tends to have: a lot of black, combat boots that can run quite tall,
some form of pale or unnatural hair dye paired with black (like one side of
bangs is blonde or the inside part visible around the neck of one's hair is
dyed red), a bit of flannels, a lot of fishnets (fun beginner tip you can just
take leg fish nets and make them arm fish nets), flaired skirts, dark wash
denim, a bit of some dark greys as well if you're feeling feisty, maybe even
some other actual colours too ooh (but pretty much only as accents!), oversized
tops are quite common, chokers can be too. This is also very adjacent to the
femboy choker striped long socks stereotype, which makes it not surprising that
it is so common to see trans girls interested in this look. Luckily, alt girl
stuff that is not the femboy strereotypes (ie you can have a choker from time to
time but let's chill out on the ones that are blatantly kink-adjacent stuff, no
striped socks but fishnets and tights work) can be fairly competent as outfits
and as a background to a wardrobe. I think the biggest upsides of this fashion
subculture for the early trans fem audience are that there is a lot of black and
other darker colours, and the common presence of oversized tops shirts crewneck
sweaters hoodies etc, and I suppose chokers too as they can take attention away
from any prominent trachea stuff if testosterone did you dirty in that way too.
Putting aside functionality

## Girlypop
