# Subcultures

Just to let everyone know ahead of time, there are effectively endless fashion
subcultures, especially when you look internationally, but this section's goal
is to talk about some of the current more common ones that are actually fairly
accessible. For example, glam looks or avante garde looks I will not really
comment on, I frankly do not think the target audience for this guide is ready
for that (again love yall btw <3), so there's not much point of me bringing it
up. The people who are really about that life will go looking for it on their
own.

## Alt girlies

I start with this group not because it starts with A, but because from my
experience a lot of trans girls want to dress like this one way or another. But
before I continue, ask yourself why you want to dress like this. Is there
anything about the style which speaks to you? Do you think it just looks cool or
hot and you want to follow suit? What do you think of the stereotypes associated
with it? Generally I would advise against really sticking to just this fashion
subculture for a really long time as it can be a bit limitation, but I can see
its upside as guides or frames of reference too. These tradeoffsand questions
are very much so for you to figure out. This should be asked for any fashion 
niche if you're really trying to go into, but I will only mention it once here.
Full disclosure, generally I lean pretty heavily into learning the fundamentals
first and the figuring out what works for you and how to end up with a unique
wardrobe, but I understand that is not for everyone, and either way talking
about some subcultures can be helpful. I get into this more in level 5, but that
will stay for later.

So what even is alternative style? Uhhh, it's a weird question to ask the same
way it is for alternative music. Alternative rock is kinda easy, it's weird rock
that might turn some people off by being a bit or a lot technical but get others
hooked, alternative music idek. Apparently boygenius is alternative music? Ok
anyways, these days in western english speaking cultures alternative womens
fashion tends to have: a lot of black, combat boots that can run quite tall,
some form of pale or unnatural hair dye paired with black (like one side of
bangs is blonde or the inside part visible around the neck of one's hair is
dyed red), a bit of flannels, a lot of fishnets (fun beginner tip you can just
take leg fish nets and make them arm fish nets), flaired skirts, dark wash
denim, a bit of some dark greys as well if you're feeling feisty, maybe even
some other actual colours too ooh (but pretty much only as accents!), oversized
tops are quite common, chokers can be too. This is also very adjacent to the
femboy choker striped long socks stereotype, which makes it not surprising that
it is so common to see trans girls interested in this look. Luckily, alt girl
stuff that is not the femboy strereotypes (ie you can have a choker from time to
time but let's chill out on the ones that are blatantly kink-adjacent stuff, no
striped socks but fishnets and tights work) can be fairly competent as outfits
and as a background to a wardrobe. I think the biggest upsides of this fashion
subculture for the early trans fem audience are that there is a lot of black and
other darker colours, and the common presence of oversized tops shirts crewneck
sweaters hoodies etc, and I suppose chokers too as they can take attention away
from any prominent trachea stuff if testosterone did you dirty in that way too.
Putting aside functionality, harsh stereotyping of this style says "You're not
that basic, but you're still basic. And sad." Something that is actually an
alternative style would not be able to be easily searched on google or pinterest
unfortunately.

## Thrift store merchant aka granola girl

I know I have been singing the praises of thrift stores for this entire guide,
and I still stand by that, but there is definitely a style/niche that can come
out of getting practically everything you own from thrift stores. If you look up
granola girl you can find the aesthetic I am talking about that's pretty common
from girlies who buy thrift in North America and some of Western Europe. But
thrift store merchants tend to be pretty localized, for example in Japan there's
a lot more of like 90s Americana throwback stuff with jeans sports jerseys and
jackets whatever, since there's more thrift stores for that market (then again
I haven't been in Japan for a while and streetwear there is so next level I
presume it moves fairly fast). A pretty easy way of finding out for yourself
what localization of thrift store merchants you have around are to go to some
local thrift stores and see what sort of outfits the girlies have on, assuming
it's not just like sweatpants or whatever because they're out for the errand of
shopping and don't care what they're actively wearing. Don't stare tho!

Thinking of specific items, some common things include: denim (whether pants or
jackets or overalls or shorts, usually on the looser side), doc martens or some
other combat boots that are beat up, some looser usually a bit oversized darkish
brown leather jacket (or I guess black too but either way should have a fair bit
of wear on them, the logic with these and the boots is you get a used leather
item second hand which should last a long time and has already been proven to
last a long time), a fair bit of accessories like rings and bracelets (not that
you necessarily find much of these in thrift stores, but I think it's part of
the eclectic sort of look found with many thrift store merchants), probably some
canvas backpack like the fjallraven mentioned earlier or perhaps a comically
large tote bag. 

Overall, thrift stores are the top spot to find unique items to diversity your
wardrobe, even putting the major environmental and price upsides aside, but
oddly enough there is its own fashion niche to be found from thrifting a lot. Up
to you what to do with that information.

## Basic bitch

Look I'm sure there's some other phrases for this, and unfortunately this phrase
in particular has some conflicts with the upcoming niche, but it is what it is,
this tends to be the most easily recognizeable phrase for this fashion niche.

## Normcore

So uh, this is probably the closest "aesthetic" you will get to from following
advice in levels 1 through 3. That is not necessarily a good or bad thing, just
the result of what happens from putting fashion fundamentals in practice with
articles of clothing you get. Unlike the previous category, I think there is a
lot of upside to be had here for trans fems, as you can later build into other
looks or more interesting outfits and wardrobe much more reasonably with a
normcore wardrobe or initial aesthetic over basic bitch stuff. You can just look
up normcore womens fashion or whatever on pinterest to try and find some looks,
but another fairly easy way and to me more engaging way of going about things is
to search up and find videos like "wardrobe essentials", "wadrobe basics", "most
versatile clothing" etc of women's fashion channels and the dozen or maybe
couple dozen items they show could very easily just be a normcore capsule
wardrobe (look this up by the way, looking at capsule wardrobes ie on blogs or
the r/capsulewardrobe subreddit can be a very quick bit-sized way of starting to
see examples of associations of how items go well together to make cohesive
outfits in a versatile wardrobe package). Lots of black white greys, but not
necessarily as much blacks as for example this guide of mine suggests, some blue
usually in jeans, and maybe some brown or tan things to complement said blues
and well with the blacks/greys/whites.
