## Proportions

I will start by saying, average feminized and masculinzed silhouettes are a lot
less different than transphobes may want you to believe. For the most part there
are just minor differences to keep in mind, which if worked in consideration of
make the whole looking feminine thing a lot more doable. This is a base from
which we should be using to consider the rest of this womens fashion in
particular section with. So what are some of these key differences?

## Shoulders

As with all the upcoming "key differences" sections, this varies from person to
person. Some girlies may have particularly proprotionately wide shoulders
relative to the average cis woman, others a bit, others not at all. It is worth
remembering, the average cis woman has shoulders which go wider than her hips. A
lot of media depictions/caricatures may tell us otherwise, but remember this
industry feeding on exploitation is primarily built to make cis women dysmorphic
and us being dysphoric is a side effect, the reality is the reality, having
wider shoulders than hips is totally fine. That said, if yours are wider than
average, it is good to avoid items which emphasize them. Some of this may sound
obvious but you'd be surprised: structured shoulder items (ie pea_coats with
shoulder padding), horizontally cut sleeves at shoulder region, tops with frilly
or fluffy or overly complicated shoulder sections, thin aka spaghetti_straps, a
shortsleeve top where the cutoff is particularly high (this is more common in
women's shirts then men's shirts oddly enough). This sounds like a lot and well
it kinda can be but please remember that the opposite is true, wearing items
that de-emphasize the shoulders can be arguably not ideal for women who already
have narrower shoulders, as with conventional beauty norms we do actually want
a bit of broadness to shoulders to emphasize an hourglass figure more.

## Ribcage

I won't lie yall this one can be a difficult pill to swallow. Very very few
trans fems who experience testosterone-driven puberty have that super narrow
ribcage setup. But like, that's fine honestly! Because quite a lot of cis women
also don't have super dainty ribcages, so there's a ton of clothing options out
there. The main suggestion I would give is, items which are more catered for
women with narrower chest/ribcage areas are best to avoid if you additionally
have a fair bit of muscle/fat built up on top of the already wider ribcage. This
sounds harsh but the reality is that a lot of women's fashion has items which
are significantly more flattering for skinny people. Said items tend to be quite
form-fitting or dainty in some particular annoying ways. This is not to say that
form-fitting or dainty clothes for women who are larger one way or another don't
exist, they're just harder to find. Like I would avoid thinnger strap
sleeveless_camisoles in this instance, or at least only stick to black or other
quite dark shades which do not emphasize volume as much. Again as is mentioned
elsewhere feel free to ignore what I am saying, the goal here is to just give
consolidated basic info for those who may not have as an innately good sense for
or personal background of fashion let alone more feminine fashion.

## Neck

Uh yeah the testosterone plus muscle muscle can make necks wider. This is
something which should diminish quite a bit with time assuming one is on HRT, if
not yeah it's a higher priority, and there are some instances where even with
testosterone suppression/removal it can stay on the relatively wider side of
things compared to the average cis woman. Very basic approach/solution here, try
to, when you are comfortable with it, prioritize cuts of tops/shirts with wider
and more open crews. There is a ton of this around in womens clothing compared
to the mens section so in the long run this is maybe the easiest proportion
thingy to keep in mind. Basically, the further out from the neckline a cut of a
top is, the proportionately less horizontal space your neck takes up of that
"opening of your face/frame" area that begins with the crew of a top. If you're
wearing a top like a camisole or dress or half-opened button-up that's really
giving a lot of real estate to your upper chest clavicles etc, well I would
suggest maybe chilling out on these at the beginning of/pre/non HRT if you have
an especially wide neck then, because it can start to shift to over-focusing on
your neck. Lets say for beginners sake, there is a goldilocks zone where if you
have a circular crew on your top (on this note please don't get like boxy or
square crews ugh), about half the width of your clavicles should be visible.

## Feet

Uhh, women be having feet? If you haven't already, you may soon discover the
pain of trying to find cute shoes your size at a store and there being
absolutely jack shit. These days fortunately, this is almost a non-issue as
sneakers and boots tend to be pretty unisex like they will sell the exact same
item but maybe a women's 10 is effectively a men's 9 or 8. As a distinction
however, there is a lot more expression with women's shoes because it's socially
acceptable for women to practically wear every type of shoe guys do but also
all sorts of platform shoes*, heels*, cutesy boots and casual shoes, you get
the idea I hope. These shoes in particular are the ones where it can be really
sucky to try and find stuff your size, but generally this should only be an
issue in person, and hopefully you can find the same item in a bigger size
online. If not, well fuck em. Obviously there are plenty of trans women with
small feet, but this is overall a thing where trans women tend to have larger
feet than cis women, hence why this point is brought up. But really, besides
the struggle of actually obtaining the shoes, shoes are just shoes nobody cares
or will be like clocking someone because omg the shoe size.

## Waist

So this one with a ton of variance person to person. I don't think it makes
much sense to consider "the average here" as it varies a bunch from region to
region of the world, let alone this being a category with much more variance. If
you got a bigger belly, I'm going to be honest contemporary fashion gets a lot
harder but it does for the same reason it gets harder for cis women with bigger
bellies. I personally am quite skinny so I don't feel comfortable giving advice
on this topic especially since it's much more complicated than the ribcage from
my understanding. But there are tons of resources for bigger women out there
like youtube videos articles etc. So far this doesn't sound like anything to do
with trans people right? Well yeah it is, for the most part it's limited. There
can just be some instances of testosterone driven fat distribution leading to
proportionately higher stomachs compared to cis women of similar BMI/curvature,
and people who worked out a fair bit as eggs or just generally pre/non-HRT may
have some pretty hefty abs and core muscles. Again I can't comment on fashion
for curvier women there are plenty of resources, and if one is not happy with
their body in that region, from what I have heard of others having sustainable
methods of weight loss and exercises which build muscle mass around hips and
thighs and booty and the like can speed up the process of more feminizing
proportions.

Anyways, there is a really big concept you should arguably centralize your new
wardrobe around, that of "the female waistline". I went over this before with
the talk of 60:30 ratios in the previous section, but here is more info on the
topic, and how it's kinda warped women's style. Feel free to look this term up
and the like, but basically, a lot of men's fashion ends up having the cutoff
point between their tops and their bottoms be right around where their hip bone
is like a little above the pubic hair not to be graphic but that's a pretty good
simple descriptor of it. Whereas with women's clothing this waistline goes way
up, like a bit above the belly button. Just trying to get clothing, mostly 
bottoms like pants and skirts first but then tops as well (because you can
yknow just tuck the tops under the bottoms), which fit this new waistline is
probably the single most important thing you can do to make your outfits be read
as female. You'll also notice, dresses tend to get tighest around this female
waistline, that's not a coincidence. With all that said, you do not have to
make it so your entire wardrobe follows this basic part of women's fashion,
because the opposite is also possible, again the 60:40 and the big hoodies. This
latter one, I suppose is present in men's fashion as well more recently
especially but I would say it is much more common in women's fashio cuz yknow
dresses, it might sound weird but a dress on its own ends up being that 60:40
or maybe 70:30 or maybe even lower and the rest is either legs or tights (well
you can also do stuff like pants under dresses or layer dresses but I think
that's a bit too advanced for this guide :))

## Differences from men's fashion

In our current society and its views on gender presentation and freedoms, men
are truly oppressed frfr I am not even joking. Women can wear basically anything
men can, even in men's sizings (obviously if you are trying to pass maybe don't
do that but I am trying to make a point here), but then there is tons of stuff
that is not deemed socially acceptable for men to wear. This means in practice,
for most trans fems upon first traversing women's fashion and clothing, there is
a tooooooon of new stuff to discover, learn more about, love, hate, and most
importantly for the purposes of this guide, mess up wearing. It is basically
inevitable to run into some articles of clothing and have no idea how to put it
on, no idea how to fold/hang it, be confused about what to pair it with etc.

You will also inevitably run into two problems, one which you may have heard of
pre-transition as well, and another less likely. First is pockets, where are the
fucking pockets. Well "they" hate us actually and want us to be useless human
accessories holding comically small often overpriced cutesie bags instead of
pockets. This has gotten better over time, but you will still find plenty of
pants and jackets and stuff with no pockets or the illusion of pockets but
actually they are comically small or worse literally stiched off right below
"the pocket line", and effectively most skirts and dresses do not come with
pockets woven in. This is fucking stupid, there is no way around it. You might
want to learn sowing you put some actual pockets onto items you find and really
like the look of but that don't be having pockets. The second of these problems,
women's clothing sizing makes no damn sense. Bring this up and out of nowhere
there will probably be some chick in the background that goes "yup..." or a
stronger response than that. Now to give some leeway, it's kinda hard to
consistently make clear sizing guides when women's fashion has a lot more of
items that can get form-fitting, and the form of women be so diverse like fat
distribution height breast size muscle hip and shoulder width etc. But even with
that context, the current reality is outrageous. There's also like a hundred
different types of sizing guides/metrics even within the same country, sure the
xs small medium large xl etc stuff still exists but there are other units as
well. And once we get into bra sizing it is actual nightmare territory, almost
no women know what their "actual bra size" is, in part due to communication
about this stuff not being the most accurate but even if it is, various
producers just completely lie about their sizing there's no consensus etc. This
means that in practice, besides taking psychic damage every time you run into
sizing warcrimes, there is much more incentive to shop in person. Scary scary I
know but uh, for long-term stuff this is suggested. And well, in-person shopping
includes thrifting which is much preferable to buying new whenever possible or
reasonable.

## Unique articles of clothing in women's fashion

You'll notice that the only two articles of clothing I talked about in level 1
were leggings and skirts, and that is because I see baby transfems buy these
two items very often so I wanted to throw in the info/warnings earlier since
reader retention is a thing. This guide will be sticking to a relatively basic
level so do not expect everything* to be covered that is not really feasible and
honestly I only know so much. I will try going over more basic categories for
now, and go over skirts a bit more in depth as well as there are various types
worth mentioning (with leggings you just kinda have leggings they're skintight
not much more to it, if you want to get a zany colour or low or high waisted or
whatever you do you boo).


