# Materials

Just as I have with previous sections, some (ok much) of this content will be
quite introductory but I believe it to be appropriate and in many cases needed
for the average transfem audience... uh sorry not sorry for the roast, anyways
cuties I'm gonna start talking about cotton.


## Cotton

I can't really think of a scenario where someone should* have a material other
than cotton as their most frequent amongst garments. It's affordable, not
fucking oil-made esters whatever that will cause a bunch of microplastics, tends
to be quite breathable and light if you want that from an item but plenty of
heavier stuff too. The point is, for the long haul, I would advise prioritizing
at least getting cotton over synthetic materials wherever possible. Examples may
include but are not limited to: pants, t-shirts, skirts, button-ups, jeans,
hoodies, hats, pyjamas, sweaters, socks, shoes (yes shoes, think of converse or
vans or something). I should also add, there are a ton of more specific types of
fabric made from cotton, but I think that is beyond the scope of this guide. To
keep it simple, just look at the materials section/tag of an item and try and
find either 100% cotton or like 99% cotton and the 1% is spandex or whatever to
keep things tight (then again I would generally advise for looser items of
clothing for baby tranfems, so we can reasonably have a lot of items in our
wardrobe that are 100% cotton!).


## Leather

Ok so vegans, hear me out hear me out. Leather > plastic nonsense synthetic
leather products. Basically I think the tradeoff of producing that much plastic
is more harmful than the microplastics oil production etc of the synthetic item
in the long run. Plus the leather product is much much higher quality, it's a
timeless format for creating clothing, and lasts very long. Some of the best,
albeit usually marked up in price but rightfully so, clothes you can get at
thrift stores are leather items, like big jackets. If you get a nice pair of
winter leather boots or two you are good to go for like 10+ winters. Basically,
wherever leather is a common material for an article of clothing, the leather
option is probably the way to go. Belts, watch straps, you get the idea I hope.
I'm not saying get a leather shirt or something less frequently seen, if you're
reading this guide I would say it is a good rule of thumb to avoid such things.
With that said, if you are thrifting and see a very well priced item you think
would go great to start/build up your fem wardrobe, I'm not going to say no
cutie!


## Wool

Ok I'll just list some common use cases where wool is cool (heh): sweaters,
lining of winter hats/toques (glory to maple syrup land), lining of sweaters or
coats ie inside of a denim jacket, winter socks. The same thing as cotton
applies where there are a lot different types of "wool blends", just look at the
tag of the item and see if it's made of wool or not. Suede also arguably goes
into this category.


## Synthetics

Unfortunately I have to admit, there are use cases where the upside of synthetic
materials for clothing is hard to deny. Most notably for our purposes, tucking
undies kinda have to be synthetic one way or another whether you get something
with cotton and then a lot of nylon or whatever to keep it in place, or a meshy
firm material for a different type of tucking panties. The same logic applies
for bras and bralettes, but with bralettes if you're a less developed girlie
there is definitely some stuff that works (and no I am not preaching and just
saying this emptily, the first bralettes I got were cotton and they still work
fine). Sports bras and attire and the like, synthetic material is default even
with the high end stuff for a reason. There tends to be a bit of spandex or
nylon or some bouncy synthetic thing in common undies and socks as well to keep
them staying on you (here is my rant about socks tho, if you are buying socks I
would recommend the spooky looking ones with toe holes, current common socks
that "fit well" basically just bundle and jam your toes together which causes
harm to our toe structure in the long haul. The same logic applies for shoes,
but luckily you can just size up if you want to avoid getting not very drippy
wide-toed shoes. Winter coats/parkas are another one where sure you can get the
like down wool inside plus leather outside items, but realistically they are
quite a lot of work to maintain because of the snow and rain and stuff in the
colder weather times, and the insulation of the synethic stuff is crazy good.
Lastly, while you can get a lot of shoes made of cotton and leather (obviously
the aforementioned leather boots and cotton sneakers come to mind, and even
stuff like air force ones have a leather outer), but somewhere along the line
there tends to be synthetic materials somewhere in the shoes ie soles,
insulation layers, waterproofing etc.


## Linen

Linnen is cool asf, I want more linnen items in my wardrobe ugghh. This material
tends to be associated with like bed sheets and the like, but it is just a
fantastic material for breathable lightweight feeling clothes. Most commonly
found as pants or shorts or dresses or button-up shirts, but also other stuff
like skirs and non-button up shirts I suppose. The main idea is that whatever
is useable as a bottom layer of clothing, it can be found in linen relatively ok
enough. If you live in a place that is hot for a lot of the year, or just gets
blisteringly hot for some of the year, I would say it is a very solid choice to
consider linen next time you are looking for clothes.


## Silk

Dang ok buddy I didn't know you hated money like that, but sure I'll talk about
silk for a bit. This is a material that luckily for us is much more common in
women's fashion, and can be found easily enough in stuff like dresses and light/
elegant tops, camisoles come to mind. Make sure it is actually silk however, 
there is a lot of synthetic items which give off the silk sheen, unless again it
is that situation where you found a really cool item second hand. Generally
speaking, if you wear a silk item it will stand out, both literally from its
sheen and from historical cultural connotations of wearing a silk item, arguably
especially in parts of the world where silk was not commonly farmed.


## Others

There are other sorts of materials for clothing present, like hemp, tencel,
bamboo, jute. These tend to either be uncommon in much of the world or even some
niche material that's not really been used for clothing before, which amounts to
a fairly higher introductory price as well. To be honest I don't think I've ever
owned clothing from the four materials I listed at the start of this section.
I'm sure they're great stuff, and when I have encountered items of those
materials in store they seem solid, but like you can very easily find some good
ass cotton items for cheaper (not like a child factory way, I mean it could
definitely be that as well, but basically a cotton item priced around the same
as an item from one of those materials as also really really good, so they do
not exactly fill a unique niche). If budget is not much of a concern for you,
sure I don't see why not. If you find an item of one of these materials second
hand for a nice enough deal, awesome!


# Cuts

So this is the section I mentioned in the preword where I do not feel super
comfortable writing as "comprehensive info". There are two broad categories to
describe here, one is broadly the cuts and sizes of clothing we tend to find
lying around, another is how different body types fit different types of cuts.
Once I have gotten to that latter section, I will do another sort of disclaimer
but still try and share the information I can. Even if it is not stuff I am
confident of, I do not want it to be like I only tell skinny and/or hourglass
girlies with relatively narrow figures/bone structure of a height around 
165-180 cm (that's 5'5'' to 5'11'' for the freedom unit defaulting degenerates
sorry not sorry go learn how to use a unit of measurement that actually makes
sense) how to find cuts of clothing that compliment their figure well. There are
indeed other types of trans fem individuals out there.
